Jonathan Figg: We're doing the intake or dourdan
Jonathan Figg: Either turn on your sound.
Jonathan Figg: There we go. Can you hear me okay okay
Jonathan Figg: Wonderful. Hi there. I'm Dr. Phil, how are you doing
TW801: I'm well, thank you.
Jonathan Figg: Are you having trouble hearing me
TW801: It's really low. Yeah, I'm sorry.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Did you did you use to call in feature for zoom
Jonathan Figg: It may one
Jonathan Figg: There may be a way to turn on your speaker phone
Jonathan Figg: So that it's louder. So look for that.
TW801: Oh,
Jonathan Figg: That's the moon.
Jonathan Figg: Was the moon. That's okay. It should be near that.
TW801: Audio
Jonathan Figg: Oh, if you don't do that. Yeah, no, we want to we want to be able to talk. So I'm just so you know we record all of our sessions, just to make our notes, they stay private. I just want to make you aware of that ahead of time.
Jonathan Figg: I'm Dr. Figure one of the internal medicine doctors, I do addiction medicine for bright heart. And so we're doing your intake. And my understanding is we're talking today about history with and it's on opioids. Is that right,
Jonathan Figg: Okay, wonderful. So I did pull your prescription report and I see that someone started you on buprenorphine recently.
Jonathan Figg: So I kind of want to talk about how you got started with opioids and kind of the history and what has led to this moment where we're, we're trying to help you and get your treatment.
TW801: I was a kid, I was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis, a
TW801: Real hard time and I started on painkillers early
Like use
TW801: Other doctors
TW801: Ignorance to the way my body is now.
TW801: Because I had to pull through. I have a cookout so
TW801: I use that to continue on with getting mess from opioids defenders and massages.
TW801: For 25 years
TW801: Cut quarter. He about five years ago. But then I thought, flying drinking and drinking
TW801: I got hit by a car and they started on morphine oxycodone
TW801: So for about six months and doing that. And then when I run up hills. I call the hair right
TW801: That's when I just wasn't as our CEO or her myself and I didn't want to leave with a bottle of Viking again because I knew that. I'm just going to go right back into the scene for which is
Lying to get pills.
TW801: So they might consider suggested this bicycle for them.
TW801: To do that with eating. All right.
Jonathan Figg: Have you ever
Jonathan Figg: You talked about quitting cold turkey five years ago.
Jonathan Figg: Have you ever been.
Jonathan Figg: In treatment before
TW801: Covered one another. Let me
Jonathan Figg: Have you ever been in a treatment center a treatment program or treated in any way for
Jonathan Figg: For opioid use
TW801: Yeah, that's what same I've been in Src for 43 days.
TW801: And I'm now in a sober living home for women.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, awesome. Okay. I didn't understand that before. Thank you for clarifying that. Um, you talked about you were diagnosed with ulcerative colitis. As a kid, but that was surgically text. Is that what you're saying.
TW801: Yeah, they got my colon and optimise Montez
Jonathan Figg: And you have
TW801: Made it. Gotcha.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Um, so, but then after that you use that diagnosis, you were saying, is that correct use the diagnosis in that history to
TW801: Yeah, I had medical doctor far away, you know, Dr. Brody, get my son.
TW801: But down here, man. So, and medical have high turnover of physicians at the clinic, again, you know, you say you have this and they don't know anything about
TW801: My body in the way it works. So it's been very easy. Gotcha. Okay, wanted it just like, Okay, how these problems on your life. So I'll leave that. And then they just we feel
Jonathan Figg: When we're all right. Um, and so
Jonathan Figg: Before you were in the recovery program. These last 43 days that you're talking about.
Jonathan Figg: What was your
Are you still there.
TW801: Yeah, I'm here, I'm sorry. I was here.
Jonathan Figg: Oh, I see. Okay. Okay. Sorry, I
TW801: Don't have
Jonathan Figg: With what's that
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so, um,
Jonathan Figg: Before you're in the recovery program these last five years, you said so you you quit cold turkey five years ago. And then when did you start back using opiates again.
TW801: Um, it's been about seven months.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, over the last seven months as your use been increasing.
TW801: Or decreasing when I went into the program. I tried to go in and cut it off completely. So I didn't have a myth, but I
TW801: got injured and I just couldn't not have them. And during that period of, you know, sobering and and trying to get my life together and seeing what I was going to do out here, it wasn't going to be something I was going to not do it. Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: And so before you're in their recovery program. These last seven months, were you using more and more opiates over time.
TW801: I don't know if I'd even ONE MORE PILLS. It was that
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so what else were you using
TW801: Heroin
Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Heroin, okay, how are you using those
Jonathan Figg: As looking okay did you inject it on
TW801: Never and I did a lot of time with mess over the past year. Okay.
TW801: Do
Jonathan Figg: I should. Okay. Um, and
Jonathan Figg: Have you ever been treated with Suboxone or buprenorphine before these last few weeks.
TW801: No, I'd never
TW801: Thought about methadone or any other treatment. So I got into SRC, people started talking
TW801: About it.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, I got you. Okay. Um, and
Jonathan Figg: So you
Jonathan Figg: Were in the program where you abstinent for a time before you were started on the Suboxone
TW801: I know I came from the hospital where I was still on opiates. There was maybe three day period where they put me in the mission before I got accepted.
TW801: So I went out and I I went out there, but I was taking my opiates as well. Gotcha. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And how much Suboxone. Have you been taking in the past few weeks.
TW801: And they just started me on the 60 day
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so it's two eight milligram films or tablets.
TW801: Yeah, okay.
Jonathan Figg: Are you taking them at the same time or split between two doses.
TW801: Time and happy to do that.
TW801: In the morning
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Um, did you start on a lower dose than that.
TW801: No, that's what I study
Jonathan Figg: You choose where you started. Okay. Have you been noticing any side effects are problems with that dose of medication.
TW801: I don't know if it's a side effect. I've been sick, but it's been a long time and I started coughing up red. So I don't know if that was from this thing, or if that's just because I've been coffee for so long.
TW801: It was just something I was noticing. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: That's not, that's probably not related to the Suboxone
Jonathan Figg: That does sound like something should be evaluated.
Jonathan Figg: As the has that dose kept you out of withdrawal.
TW801: I think so. I mean, I started to do anything.
TW801: I know I didn't take any yesterday because
TW801: Well, because they didn't have one. I don't know.
TW801: Why withdraw is everything eight
TW801: That's
Jonathan Figg: What's kind of the pattern symptoms that you develop in withdrawal so
Every
Jonathan Figg: And then what happens
TW801: I'm sorry.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, um,
Jonathan Figg: Tell me about your pattern of withdrawal symptoms. So
TW801: Everything.
Jonathan Figg: And then what happens
TW801: Sometimes
TW801: Not yet.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So you haven't had those symptoms so far since you've been on you.
Jonathan Figg: Know, right, yeah. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And do you take any other medications.
TW801: On Prozac.
TW801: calcium and magnesium Hill. I'm underweight.
Jonathan Figg: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And
Jonathan Figg: Are you allergic to anything.
TW801: And this villain.
Jonathan Figg: Penicillin ampicillin something in Toronto was in between there.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, gotcha.
Jonathan Figg: And are those recent allergies or was that something from childhood.
TW801: It wasn't that it was just wrapped around said okay
Jonathan Figg: What about the ampicillin.
TW801: I don't, I don't remember. I mean, I assume it's probably just the same thing.
TW801: They're just ones I've always said
Jonathan Figg: Gotcha. Okay. The just all your life. You've told people were told me
Yeah.
TW801: Okay.
TW801: But the composition was
TW801: severe nausea and stomach bleeding. Okay, just all something similar, where it was.
TW801: Maybe that was the bleeding and the other one was severe nausea.
TW801: Okay.
Jonathan Figg: That sounds like it's accurate. That makes sense with the tour at all with the costume. Okay. Um, have you had any recent lab work.
TW801: Um, no. I have to get some done. I've got my first. Well, I mean, I guess I have had recent lab work done.
TW801: For the bicycle program. Maybe it was
TW801: I don't know, was trying to get all these different things from the doctor and my health in order so I did have some things done at Quest, and I have some things lined up to do
Jonathan Figg: Okay, did they did the care coordinators, get you an order to do lab work for us.
TW801: No.
Jonathan Figg: No, not yet. Okay. So we need to follow up on that, that's fine. I'm okay. I'm
Jonathan Figg: And when's the last time that. Sorry about that. Timers going on. Whoops.
TW801: Last time I did well.
Jonathan Figg: When's the last time you had a job.
TW801: Cheers
Jonathan Figg: Okay, and what did you use to do
TW801: That was a cashier at Home Depot.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, awesome. Um, have you had any other long term occupations.
TW801: Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. Um, when we think about family history we usually talk about mom, dad, brother sisters
TW801: So Amanda sisters
Jonathan Figg: Does anybody else have problems with misusing medications or drugs.
TW801: And my dad was an addict. My biological father died when I was 12 and his addiction my step dad was an outage. She's 30 years clean and activating a
TW801: My family on that side is what straight edge and then my dad as a very large family so speckled throughout the there's addicts and not but not anyone that I keep in close contact with. Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: Um, let's kind of all the history that I need just to make sure I understand the background that
Jonathan Figg: You have and
TW801: Other medical things that we want to be.
Jonathan Figg: So let's, um, let's talk a little bit about how bright heart program our program works. So we are an addiction treatment, recovery program.
Jonathan Figg: We do all of our treatment by telemedicine and we use zoom like we're using right now we're structured around weekly support groups where we put people with other people who have similar backgrounds have similar
Jonathan Figg: Problems and are in various stages of recovery, so that you can support each other, kind of like an NA meeting would be the group is led by a therapist who has a background in addiction medicine.
Jonathan Figg: And the meetings are about a week, excuse me about an hour long each week at the same time and they start with a check in with the doctor so you get access to the doctor who's treating you on a weekly or every other week basis.
Jonathan Figg: Now, when we can make sure you have the right dose. So you're not having to try it, you're not having cravings, that we can address any concerns about relapse ahead of time.
Jonathan Figg: On we can make sure that you have a good supply of medication and don't run out all of those things. And then the therapist usually has a topic.
Jonathan Figg: There, you know, there's a period of like sharing and the therapist usually has a topic about relapse prevention or stress management or something to that effect to help support. Everyone does that make sense.
Jonathan Figg: Yes. Okay, cool. Um,
Jonathan Figg: Did. So you've been on the buprenorphine now for just a little bit of time did they explain how that medication works and what it does.
TW801: I don't think so. No. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So you you in the past, you are using
Jonathan Figg: Let's say you have like hydrocodone phones.
Jonathan Figg: So Norco is what I see in the reason
Jonathan Figg: Why hydrocodone is an opiate medication and activate certain things in your brain. And those things that important things are one, it activates a pleasure center in your brain. That's what gives the high to
Jonathan Figg: It reinforces the need for it. So, it builds a dependence and three, it turns off your wakefulness. So it can make you sleepy and it can turn off your breathing.
Jonathan Figg: That's the overdose. Right. Those are the kind of the four things that opiates do buprenorphine is an opiate but it works differently. It only
Jonathan Figg: Hear me okay
TW801: Okay, so
Jonathan Figg: buprenorphine will stop withdrawal, because it is an opiate it helps reduce cravings, because it doesn't have the withdrawal and it doesn't have the high that other
Jonathan Figg: Opiates do it blocks of other opiates. So if you're on buprenorphine and you use something else in a normal amount, it will prevent that other thing from working. So it helps prevent people from getting high.
Jonathan Figg: Or using other drugs because they don't get the effect that they're looking for.
Jonathan Figg: And then it's a safer medication because it does not. It has basically a limit beyond which it doesn't do any more.
Jonathan Figg: If we go about like 32 milligrams. So you're on 60 milligrams usually be on 32 milligrams doesn't have any additional effect. So it's very, very difficult to overdose on or hurt yourself with. So it's a safe medication. So that's why we like you were an orphan.
Jonathan Figg: That's why we're able to prescribe it kinda like any other normal outpatient medication as opposed to like methadone, where you have to show up every day and take it in front of someone does that all make sense.
Jonathan Figg: Yes.
TW801: Good. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: So the way starting into the program we work is we one I give you another prescription for Suboxone so you had severe text, which is buprenorphine alone.
Jonathan Figg: The preferred medication is a combination of buprenorphine and Alok so naloxone is the reversal agent and it's an abuse deterrence in the pill or in the tablet or film. So what happens you you've learned to dissolve the tablets under your tongue. Correct. Yeah.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, as long as you take it. That's the correct way to take as long as you take it that way.
Jonathan Figg: You only get the buprenorphine. You only get the medication that helps prevent here withdrawing cravings and and that kind of thing. The no oxygen does not get absorbed. But if someone were to misuse it either, you know, crush it up to snorted shoot it.
Jonathan Figg: If they chew it up and swallow it, they don't get the buprenorphine and instead get a whole bunch of new locks on which puts them into withdrawal and prevents them from getting
Jonathan Figg: High off the medication. So it's an abuse deterrent to make sure people take the medication correct way and the combination helps has been shown to help prevent people from relaxing.
Jonathan Figg: Because it encourages them to be consistent, take the medication and appropriate
TW801: Way that makes sense.
TW801: Okay, cool.
Jonathan Figg: Um, so we definitely prefer especially for people who have a history with prescription medications. We don't want this to be
Jonathan Figg: We want this to feel like an appropriate medication that you take every day, kind of like how someone with high blood pressure might take a blood pressure pill. It's just a pedal that helps you feel healthy and be functional and continue your recovery. Does that make sense.
Jonathan Figg: Right.
Oh,
TW801: My god.
TW801: A lot
Jonathan Figg: Actually right yeah don't want things to be a fix. We want things to feel normal. So
Jonathan Figg: What I'd like to do is write a new prescription since you already feel relatively well
Jonathan Figg: On 16 milligrams. And I don't think you're having side effects withdrawals or cravings. Those are the three things that we care about there. I would stick with this dose. I'll write your prescription on. Do you still have a current supply of the buprenorphine that you got from other programs.
TW801: For
Jonathan Figg: You're totally out
Jonathan Figg: Yeah okay, I'm going to write the prescription right now this morning and I want you to go to the pharmacy and about an hour, hour and a half.
Jonathan Figg: To find out whether they're going to kick us kickback the prescription and require us to fill out a form because sometimes they do that and it delays things and I want us to find out about that as early as possible so that you get the medication as soon as possible. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: And then, and then I'd like to see I have
Jonathan Figg: relapse prevention groups on Tuesday at 3pm and Thursday at 3pm when either of those times work well for you.
TW801: Um, yeah, those are both after my other classes, it
Jonathan Figg: Is there a preference on one versus another.
TW801: Not particularly. Either one will work for me.
Jonathan Figg: Okay. All right.
Jonathan Figg: All right, how about our Thursday at 3pm groups. So what we'll do is we'll enroll in that one of the groups, like I said, they're done through zoom. Just the same way, we're having this meeting and
TW801: What you'll do
Jonathan Figg: Is you'll call on zoom you'll call the virtual clinic, which is the number you called before me.
Jonathan Figg: About and the first time we want you to do it at least 1530 minutes before the group would start just to make sure anything extra is taking care of paperwork or
Jonathan Figg: Any extra communication that they have for you and then they'll give you the number for the group room, kind of like how they gave you my number.
Jonathan Figg: That you can get into the group and that group number changes every week. So you do have to login or you do have to call the virtual clinic each time.
Jonathan Figg: For group, okay. I'm okay and then
Jonathan Figg: Let's see, I think. Let's make sure I have your correct pharmacy.
Jonathan Figg: In our systems. So I show CBS on hatch road, is that correct for you.
TW801: That is
TW801: Yeah.
TW801: But
TW801: Well, I just moved from
TW801: The facility to house not in series and more and Invesco that new your problem.
Jonathan Figg: Is there a better pharmacy for you.
TW801: CBS
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, there's a CVS over on
Jonathan Figg: Carpenter run
TW801: A carpenter, Tom.
Jonathan Figg: Where are you sorry
TW801: I'm on Tali and Marja
To
See
Jonathan Figg: Okay, so there's that. And then we pharmacies. Let's see if this is why we have Google Maps, right, this is, this is what, let's see, there's a
Jonathan Figg: There's a CVS or Rite Aid right over.
Jonathan Figg: At the corner of McHenry and brings more that looks like it's
Jonathan Figg: Probably relatively close
Jonathan Figg: To all these a long road, though, but you're down in the desk. Oh.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah, there's a CD. Yeah, it looks like the CPS over on Carpenter in Kansas is probably fairly close to you what I tell you to do is
Jonathan Figg: If you can
Jonathan Figg: Maybe
Jonathan Figg: Find out what the nearest pharmacy is to you after we from this call and then
Jonathan Figg: Call the virtual clinic and let them know they can update that and all I'll hold off on sending that prescription here for just a little bit so that we can find out what the best pharmacy for you is, do you know the exact address right now.
TW801: Is 1412 not burning
Jonathan Figg: Okay, here, that helps. Yeah.
TW801: My bad 1216 smell burning. Cool. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: 16. There we go. So now I can map right where you are. And now pharmacies.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, yeah. Let's see. Um, the, probably the CVS. Yeah. Probably the CVS over on Greg's more the corner brings more McHenry So it'd be South southeast of you.
Jonathan Figg: Is probably the best closest one to you. There's a Walmart in the opposite direction. So either one. Whichever you prefer.
Jonathan Figg: And so all update your pharmacy is the CBS okay for you.
Jonathan Figg: Yeah. OK, cool. So all update your pharmacy. I'll send your prescription
Jonathan Figg: And then
Jonathan Figg: I'm going to have
Jonathan Figg: The care coordinators who you talked to before me follow up with you to get your lab records. That's the only thing we want to make sure that your livers working well and that you've been tested for HIV and hepatitis.
Jonathan Figg: At some point in the recent past. Okay.
Jonathan Figg: Okay, I'm done. That's all I have. Do you have any questions or concerns right now.
TW801: I don't, I don't think so. Okay.
TW801: All right, so we decided going to which which yeah
Jonathan Figg: It's going to be CBS at
Jonathan Figg: Let's see the actual address of the CBS
Jonathan Figg: Is 1700 McHenry Avenue and it's at the corner of McHenry And Briggs more
TW801: Okay, okay. Yeah.
And then
Jonathan Figg: Okay. And then do you understand about column a virtual clinic and that the group will be Thursday at 3pm.
Jonathan Figg: Yes, there is a 3pm okay that I'll have, I'll just have the care coordinators follow up with you about the lab work so that we can get those records. Anything else I can help you with before we go.
TW801: Know that you've got everything
TW801: Wonderful.
Jonathan Figg: You so nice to meet you. This morning, Tanya and then I'll look to talk to you again next Thursday at three, okay.
TW801: Okay, thank you so much.
Jonathan Figg: My pleasure. You have a wonderful day. Take care.
Jonathan Figg: Bye bye. Thank you.
Jonathan Figg: Alright, so during the
Jonathan Figg: Video we pulled her jurors report, which shows, she's recently been prescriptive morphine and then before that she was prescribed Marcos and
Jonathan Figg: Inventors as well. And then we pulled her as I am.
Jonathan Figg: Which
Jonathan Figg: Was not concerning and she's appropriate for buprenorphine treatment and we pulled her expert and an audit scores zero, so I'm not concerned about her drinking and she's recently been in recovery. And then we're going to
Jonathan Figg: write her a prescription for
Jonathan Figg: People for Suboxone
Jonathan Figg: eight milligrams twice a day, and she'll be in the
Room.